[SPEAKER_01]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm Tom Turbyville.
[SPEAKER_01]: Terry Rosser not only served two tours of Vietnam, but he also flew himself there.
[SPEAKER_01]: Seventy-four hours and ten stops along the way.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's just one story he has to tell.
[SPEAKER_01]: Like most Purple Heart winners, he does not think it that big a deal that he was wounded.
[SPEAKER_01]: What is a big deal to Terry Rosser is family, his alma mater, Texas A&M University, his faith, and his friends.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we welcome Terry Rosser to Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_01]: Terry, it is an absolute honor to have you here, and thank you for your service.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'll quickly go through your youth.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were born in March, you spent 10 years in Waco, moved to Bryan College Station in 1949.
[SPEAKER_01]: What was the community like back then?
[SPEAKER_01]: It was very small, maybe 40,000 in both areas, and it was very small, 7,000 possibly.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was a small town, but it grew, obviously.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's obviously sort of like today.
[SPEAKER_01]: I imagine it's centered around the university and athletics and football team.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's back during the Bear Bryant era and all of that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, Bear Bryant came on, and our high school was Stephen F. Austin High School, which is now middle school.
[SPEAKER_01]: In fact, we just had our 50-year reunion, the class of 56.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: You went to Allen Military Academy, which was a junior college, right?
[SPEAKER_01]: I loved Allen Military Academy Junior College.
[SPEAKER_01]: They had great sports programs, and a lot of us learned how to study, something we didn't apply ourselves in high school.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I learned to like the military, ROTC, which started this whole thing for me.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then you went on to Texas A&M and actually three years in that ROTC program.
[SPEAKER_01]: Three years and two years in advanced ROTC.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then in 61, I was commissioned and graduated.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Went on active duty that summer.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, six weeks after graduation.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were ready to go.
[SPEAKER_00]: Wasn't much of a summer break.
[SPEAKER_01]: On my way to Fort Benning, Georgia.
[SPEAKER_01]: Where you had infantry training then.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was an infantryman, and I was an infantryman from 61 to 83.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the Army Aviation then became a combat armed branch.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I was an infantryman for a long time, and I had infantry jobs.
[SPEAKER_01]: But then you went to Fort Rucker, Alabama, where you learned to fly.
[SPEAKER_01]: Went to fly school at the Aviation Center in Fort Rucker, Alabama.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_00]: Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's in L.A., lower Alabama.
[SPEAKER_01]: Lower, lower Alabama.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's talk about Vietnam and a fascinating part of your story is how you got there.
[SPEAKER_01]: You flew yourself, and I'm going to let you tell that story some 74 hours later and you're in Saigon.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that trip.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'll try to be quick, but we basically, after fly school, we received a transition to this aircraft, CV-2B Caribou.
[SPEAKER_01]: Maybe I can put it in front of me here.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, lift it up a little higher there.
[SPEAKER_01]: A little higher, and it's...
[SPEAKER_01]: De Havilland product, made in Canada.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's a twin engine, R2000 Pratt & Whitney engines.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we grew to love it.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's very powerful.
[SPEAKER_01]: It has a gull-like wing and carries airborne paratroopers.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it carries a lot of other things, which we can talk about later.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we received our mission and we took off from Fort Bragg with 18 aircraft en route to Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we flew up to Newfoundland
[SPEAKER_01]: down to the Azores and then over to Spain was our plan.
[SPEAKER_01]: My buddy and I, departing the Azores, he had serious engine trouble.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had to return.
[SPEAKER_01]: So now there was two, not 18.
[SPEAKER_01]: There was just two of us.
[SPEAKER_01]: Our world was reduced.
[SPEAKER_01]: We fixed his aircraft.
[SPEAKER_01]: We continued on.
[SPEAKER_01]: And 200 miles out of Toro Horn Air Force Base in Madrid, Spain, I started losing the number two engine.
[SPEAKER_01]: My goodness.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we pumped all the extra oil through our system out to the engine.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it was, we were in violent thunderstorms over Spain.
[SPEAKER_01]: You must have thought combat had already started.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, I thought, I said, the Vietnam tear is going to be a piece of cake.
[SPEAKER_01]: But the storms got worse and the engine was in serious trouble.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I tried to climb because we were over the mountains.
[SPEAKER_01]: And my friend Dean Schwartz looked back as a lightning bolt hit us.
[SPEAKER_01]: And everybody screamed that the engine blew up.
[SPEAKER_01]: But Dean told me we lit up like a big light bulb in the sky.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I looked down, and sure enough, the engine was still trying to work.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we landed later in a very demanding situation, rainstorm.
[SPEAKER_01]: Got a new engine, took off later, and went to Verona, Italy.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we took off there at 12 o'clock at night after the aircraft was repaired.
[SPEAKER_01]: leveled off at 7,000 feet in the weather.
[SPEAKER_01]: When I say in the weather, everybody, that means we couldn't see past the windshield.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: 7,000 feet's not very high.
[SPEAKER_01]: Oh, no, but we were there, leveled off, and number two, quit again.
[SPEAKER_01]: They had forgotten to tighten an inch and a half fuel line that went into the engine.
[SPEAKER_01]: So that time it was far more serious because we were way overloaded, and we were in trouble because when you
[SPEAKER_01]: When you're overloaded, you need a longer airfield.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we only had 3,000 foot.
[SPEAKER_01]: We demanded 6,000.
[SPEAKER_01]: Anyway, we cleaned up the engine.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that means one has to turn the fuel and all the electricity off where you don't have a major fire.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we ended up landing.
[SPEAKER_01]: We saved the crew and saved everybody else on a very short runway.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then the rest of the trip, although challenging, we had no more maintenance trouble.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we sort of saved two aircraft, and we hadn't been to Vietnam yet.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's right.
[SPEAKER_01]: You eventually went to Athens, Adana, is that right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Adana, Turkey.
[SPEAKER_01]: Tehran, New Delhi.
[SPEAKER_01]: Tehran, Iran.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we stopped into Karachi, Pakistan, and we went through India.
[SPEAKER_01]: New Delhi, New Delhi and Calcutta.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then we went out over the water again, made our way to Saigon, South Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you finally arrived for work.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was, in fact, somewhere along the line, I heard that Air Force pilots were getting, and I love the Air Force, they were getting DFCs for Distinguished Flying Crosses for saving an aircraft that lost engines.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we got there, they said, where have you been?
[SPEAKER_01]: So anyway, you wanted your distinguished flying cross.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I'd like to have been recognized.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: First year of Vietnam in 1963.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk a little bit about what your job was there as the pilot of the caribou.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, our main purpose was to resupply the special forces who were training
[SPEAKER_01]: Mountain yard people, mountain people, are South Vietnamese soldiers.
[SPEAKER_01]: And when I say resupply, that was pigs, chickens.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'd carry ammunition, fuel, a lot of times together, fuel and ammunition, which is not so good.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we basically kept them alive, brought them their building material.
[SPEAKER_01]: That was before helicopters, basically.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we either air landed on their real short, unimproved strips, mostly at times a clay road,
[SPEAKER_01]: or we airdropped to them and we airdropped very low because if something drifted away, the bad guys got it instead of the good guys.
[SPEAKER_01]: So it was very challenging.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had a wonderful role.
[SPEAKER_01]: I love the special forces and there, it was only about 13 to 15,000 of us in Vietnam then, mostly advisors and that army aviation.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right, right.
[SPEAKER_01]: You said that you're talking about some of your cargo, livestock,
[SPEAKER_01]: at some times, and that could get sort of challenging on takeoffs.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, we would take the cows, we'd run a strip through their neck apparatus and tie them on both sides of the aircraft in the center of it where the CG was, and everything looked good, but you start taking off, they would get a little excited and start moving around.
[SPEAKER_01]: So it was not uncommon just to see the big old aircraft moving around the runway on takeoff because the cows were a little restless.
[SPEAKER_01]: You weren't there long, August of 1963, and talk about the event of the day that
[SPEAKER_01]: that ended up in you earning your Purple Heart?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, we were mad because they sent us on a PX run from Da Nang and northern part of Vietnam back to Saigon.
[SPEAKER_01]: We didn't even bring our flak vests.
[SPEAKER_01]: We were just mad.
[SPEAKER_01]: We wanted to fly our combat missions.
[SPEAKER_01]: But coming back, we decided the weather was getting bad.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we decided we would just fly a certain route.
[SPEAKER_01]: We lowered our altitude a little bit.
[SPEAKER_01]: And about that time, we had a major explosion in the cockpit.
[SPEAKER_01]: The crew chief told us later on, the young enlisted people, they're wonderful young people, that a blast of automatic weapons fire went by our tail section, and he was running forward when the cockpit was hit.
[SPEAKER_01]: And at that time, it blew some people all around, and I immediately applied takeoff power, went into the weather where they couldn't see us anymore.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then we climbed on up and leveled off above the weather.
[SPEAKER_01]: When you fly in the weather in Vietnam, it's not like,
[SPEAKER_01]: the United States with great radar control, you're basically taking the chance that you won't hit anybody else that's in the weather.
[SPEAKER_01]: You just don't know where everybody is.
[SPEAKER_01]: Anyway, I asked Jim Covington, the young man with me, if he was hurt, and he was.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he was bleeding pretty bad from his leg.
[SPEAKER_01]: We sat on armor plating.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had armor plating on our sides.
[SPEAKER_01]: But there was all sorts of holes where things could hit us.
[SPEAKER_01]: But the most traumatic part of it was neither one of us could hear initially.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was so loud.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we thought we'd lost our hearing.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I remember my arm stinging, but then I was flying, which you're trained to do.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we got Jim back, and they bandaged him somewhat.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then I looked down and saw my arm was bleeding.
[SPEAKER_01]: So it knocked out a system or two in the aircraft, so we had a challenging landing.
[SPEAKER_01]: But then they took us to the flight surgeon, an old ornery Air Force guy, old to me then, but...
[SPEAKER_01]: He took care of Jim first and then he came in and saw me and he told me that he was writing us up for a Purple Heart.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they do that.
[SPEAKER_01]: We don't do it.
[SPEAKER_01]: They do that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Send it through channels.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I said, why?
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm not hurt that bad.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he basically chastised me and said, would you rather the round bent a foot over and blown your head off or that would have made you happy?
[SPEAKER_01]: So he made his point and I shut up and we went on.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you probably have your Purple Heart.
Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we talked about how you made a plane that you did not want next of kin notified for fear that they might think it was more serious than it really was.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: Every young soldier, Sailor, Airman, Marine, has an opportunity to sign some forms.
[SPEAKER_01]: If I have a minor wound that keeps me in the hospital briefly or not at all, I would like to not tell my parents or my loved one or my wife.
[SPEAKER_01]: Your wife.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were married at the time.
[SPEAKER_01]: Had a wife and a small girl.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'll talk about your family in a moment.
[SPEAKER_01]: You flew a total of 860 combat hours in two tours, actually, of Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: My total combat time was 816 hours, yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right, right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's go to between your tours of Vietnam, you had another combat tour of duty.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk a little bit about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: When the U.S.
[SPEAKER_01]: was asked to go to the Dominican Republic, I was assigned there as an operations officer, sort of a ground infantry assignment.
[SPEAKER_01]: I had aviation infantry assignments.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it was very interesting, and we were, of course, trying to keep the Americans safe during that turmoil down there and to allow free elections to take place.
[SPEAKER_01]: And Juan Balguer was elected president, and the Dominican Republic stabilized, and we brought everybody home.
[SPEAKER_01]: But they did shoot at us occasionally, and our young men did very well there in combat.
[SPEAKER_01]: You told me when we were talking that you were talking about
[SPEAKER_01]: what your uncle once told you.
[SPEAKER_01]: Your uncle was in World War II.
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you talked about flying and the things that scared him in that order.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: I guess we should say challenges for all these big, brave men and women.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right, challenged him.
[SPEAKER_01]: What did scare you?
[SPEAKER_01]: And he talked about weather first, severe weather, and then maintenance difficulties, which we've mentioned already.
[SPEAKER_01]: Both of them, matter of fact.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then the enemy.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I realized, yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: And here he is, a fighter pilot in World War II.
[SPEAKER_01]: a pilot in the Korean War, and also in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: And those were still our priorities.
[SPEAKER_01]: Because if you run into bad weather, you've got to handle that.
[SPEAKER_01]: If you have maintenance problems, that's a more serious challenge.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then there's the enemy, which can obviously hurt you as well.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: I want to go ahead and if we can right now, I'd like to go to some photographs that Terry has supplied us.
[SPEAKER_01]: These are photographs that actually hang on the wall in his home and some other photographs that he found from his days in Vietnam, some 40 something years ago.
[SPEAKER_01]: If we can go ahead and go to some of those photographs.
[SPEAKER_01]: Here's a young Terry Rosser.
[SPEAKER_01]: How old were you there?
[SPEAKER_01]: 1965, about 26 I guess.
[SPEAKER_01]: pretty sharp haircut.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was in Vietnam when I was 25 years old, so that's right after.
[SPEAKER_01]: I wasn't very old.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: So that was right about the end of your first tour, right around... Yes, just after my first tour at Fort Benning, Georgia.
[SPEAKER_01]: All right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Lieutenant Terry Rosser.
[SPEAKER_01]: All right, we'll move on to the next photograph.
[SPEAKER_01]: What are we looking at there?
[SPEAKER_01]: This is when I was a brigade commander at Fort Rucker, Alabama.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was a
[SPEAKER_01]: God blessed me with the command of the 1st Aviation Brigade Air Assault, and it's a wonderful IP&I, and we were trying to get into an AH-1S Attack Cobra for a mission.
[SPEAKER_01]: And one of our battalions in the brigade was an attack helicopter battalion.
[SPEAKER_01]: And those young men defend and help our infantrymen so well.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they have cannons in the front, and you have missiles, and it's a pretty capable aircraft.
[SPEAKER_01]: All right, move on to another
[SPEAKER_01]: Photograph?
[SPEAKER_01]: This was on a brigade field training exercise, and I just stopped like, you know, bosses get to stop and sweep down and talk to the subordinate commanders and ask things, how are things going?
[SPEAKER_01]: So that was my opportunity at that point.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's you on the right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, I'm on the right, and I'd just gotten out of the helicopter and talking with Stan there, one of our battalion commanders.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_01]: Move on.
[SPEAKER_01]: This is in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're way back in 1963 again.
[SPEAKER_01]: These are some mountain yards that I mentioned.
[SPEAKER_01]: They're small people.
[SPEAKER_01]: They're feisty.
[SPEAKER_01]: They're very nice.
[SPEAKER_01]: And this was sort of a look at the aircraft.
[SPEAKER_01]: This was at Tabat, Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was a clay strip high in the mountains and not much room for error.
[SPEAKER_01]: We sort of wore flak vests.
[SPEAKER_01]: We took off our pistols and stuff like that when we flew.
[SPEAKER_01]: But the flak vest was about all we had.
[SPEAKER_01]: It wouldn't stop anything but flak, but it was a flak vest.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And is that the caribou in the background?
[SPEAKER_01]: And that's the caribou in the background.
[SPEAKER_01]: Tabat, Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: Asha Lui, Tabat Valley.
[SPEAKER_01]: People have heard about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Gentlemen on the left, people at least of our age may be familiar with Dr. Henry Kissinger, and that's you on the right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about this event.
[SPEAKER_01]: February of 1976, our unit from Fort Hood.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was a major troop commander of this aircraft.
[SPEAKER_01]: Some 18 aircraft in a company.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'll show that in a moment.
[SPEAKER_01]: Go ahead.
[SPEAKER_01]: Oh, yes, that's right.
[SPEAKER_01]: We can see that.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we took a CH-47 Chinook mission down to Guatemala to help those people.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was a terrible earthquake, 7.62 on the Richter scale.
[SPEAKER_01]: And Secretary of State Kissinger came down to visit our last day.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he was asking me, you always present yourself.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I said, wagon master six.
[SPEAKER_01]: That was our call sign.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he said, what is this wagon master?
[SPEAKER_01]: And so I had to explain what that meant.
[SPEAKER_01]: But he was a very nice gentleman and he honored us by his visit to our area.
[SPEAKER_01]: All right.
[SPEAKER_01]: We've got a couple of more.
[SPEAKER_01]: You're being given an award here.
[SPEAKER_01]: This is a General Stilwell in South Vietnam back in 1963.
[SPEAKER_01]: And this is myself receiving my first air medal.
[SPEAKER_01]: Mm-hmm.
[SPEAKER_01]: It is unique, Tom, because the medals I received in Vietnam early on were made in World War II.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Amazing.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, this is the final picture you're able to fit there on the screen.
[SPEAKER_01]: This is an early and a later in your military career.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: The one on the left is 1963, flying in some kind of bad weather in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: And a fellow took a picture of me.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then...
[SPEAKER_01]: 24 years later, the staff was wonderful for me there in the brigade, and they requested to receive a caribou to be sent from the National Guard.
[SPEAKER_01]: They brought it up to Fort Rucker, and I received a currency ride.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I became current again in 1987 as a current brigade commander.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was such a great honor for me to be able to fly that aircraft early and then late in my career.
[SPEAKER_01]: I bet that wasn't real, indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: You talked about some things while looking at the pictures that we're going to refer to here in just a second.
[SPEAKER_01]: Your second tour of Vietnam, I'm going to let you just go ahead and say to me what you said to me the other day.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's a lot of that that you haven't discussed and you don't discuss, but tell us what you can.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was just a very sensitive mission that I've swore to secrecy then, and I'm going to remain that way today, but it was a sensitive mission, and I flew a lot of hours, and I flew with a lot of great people, but
[SPEAKER_01]: It was 68, 69.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was right there where the Tet Offensive was stopping, so we got involved in that.
[SPEAKER_01]: But it was a demanding but rewarding tour as well.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's fast forward now.
[SPEAKER_01]: Mid-70s, we saw the photograph a moment ago, and really what was a humanitarian mission to Guatemala.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, the unit at Fort Hood, often our Chinook unit went to South America.
[SPEAKER_01]: They had a terrible earthquake in Nicaragua.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so here in February of 76, 7.6 earthquake in Guatemala.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we sent a contingent down there, flew down, set up camp, and we delivered corn, beans, critical food material, and water to the countryside.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the countryside is where the Indians live.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they had a lot of destruction.
[SPEAKER_01]: All the lines of communication, the bridges, the roads were destroyed.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so it was a blessing for Army people to be able to go to a country in Central America and give them life essential products.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it helped them.
[SPEAKER_01]: The overall relations between America, that one mission, and a country in Central America.
[SPEAKER_01]: Because we were there helping people survive versus some other type of mission.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you told me that most soldiers, most military people will say that it is the humanitarian missions that they remember more than the combat missions.
[SPEAKER_01]: Tom, I know of no one, no one ever told me, and I was in the infantry and combat arms, they wanted to go out and kill somebody.
[SPEAKER_01]: But they always...
[SPEAKER_01]: wanted to go help somebody.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're asked to go and defend our country and to take up arms, but it's not a desired role.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'd rather do something that helps someone.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Later in your career, and you talk about it, you say that you were blessed, you say that you were honored, and certainly were as command tours.
[SPEAKER_01]: a couple of them for a battalion and a brigade.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that part of your career.
[SPEAKER_01]: In the mid 70s, the Army decided to put together boards of officers and select future commanders.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I was honored to be one of the first battalion commanders selected.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was one out of 23 selected to command an aviation battalion in 77.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then I was blessed again because leading soldiers is a wonderful
[SPEAKER_01]: obligation, wonderful responsibility, and you cannot take that lightly.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's a 24-hour a day job, but it's also a blessing.
[SPEAKER_01]: So, and then in 1985, I was selected to command one of seven in the Army aviation brigades, and that was another blessing in my life, as well as a challenge, because it was 7,000 folks.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's a good-sized little city.
[SPEAKER_01]: Exactly.
[SPEAKER_01]: And somebody's, there's always a couple in trouble.
[SPEAKER_01]: But luckily, there's always a whole bunch of doing great things, so you can go pat them on the back and award them something.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were a commander of a Chinook helicopter company in Fort Hood, and I think we can hold up the model now.
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: Hold it up there high around your tight end.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're back now to 74 through 76, and this is a wonderful, powerful helicopter, and you see them over the skies in Iraq and Afghanistan today.
[SPEAKER_01]: But it's really a workhorse, one of the workhorses of what we took to Guatemala.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it's a wonderful, wonderful aircraft, helicopter.
[SPEAKER_01]: After your military career, you became an educator.
[SPEAKER_01]: You became a teacher right here at Blinn for several years in communications and also in journalism.
[SPEAKER_01]: In our closing minutes, I want to talk about a few things.
[SPEAKER_01]: First off, you're one of the few guests that we've had here that have worn their uniform.
[SPEAKER_01]: proudly, I might say.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk a little bit about this uniform that you wear.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I purchased this uniform, Tom, a couple of months ago because my son-in-law was promoted to 06 Captain in the Navy, and he had lost his father, so he asked me to come up and swear him to that office.
[SPEAKER_01]: So it was an honor for me.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I went and got me a uniform just a little bit bigger than the one I ditched in 87.
[SPEAKER_01]: Not much bigger.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I wanted to tell everybody that might be watching this program that the uniform must be worn properly.
[SPEAKER_01]: This uniform I have is what we call a class B uniform.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's similar to your sports suit that you have on or a business suit.
[SPEAKER_01]: Notice I have ribbons, not a medal.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so if you were to put on a tux and I would put on a more formal uniform, I might, I then have the opportunity to wear a medal, a full medal.
[SPEAKER_01]: Mm-hmm.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I'm hurt, Tom, when I see people in various stages of dress, ripped up fatigues that have a medal on that they may or may not have earned.
[SPEAKER_01]: A person who served their country, served their service honorably, I don't think would ever wear a medal on a ripped up pair of fatigues.
[SPEAKER_01]: They mean too much.
[SPEAKER_01]: They're from our government to us.
[SPEAKER_01]: So be weary of those who
[SPEAKER_01]: dress very casually and have metal stuck all over them.
[SPEAKER_01]: Terry, we said from the outset that one of the things that does mean a lot to you is your family.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about your family.
[SPEAKER_01]: You married Myrna Black in 1959.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, 59.
[SPEAKER_01]: Myrna Louise Black, her father of Great First Sergeant, World War II veteran.
[SPEAKER_01]: We married in 59.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're going on 48 years.
[SPEAKER_01]: She's been a blessing to me, and like in many professions, a lovely, helpful wife makes it worthwhile.
[SPEAKER_01]: Sure.
[SPEAKER_01]: I have three daughters, Tenise, class of 83 here at A&M.
[SPEAKER_01]: Middle daughter, class of 04, she started in 79 but now 04.
[SPEAKER_01]: And my youngest went to Blinn College and received her medical degrees.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they're all married.
[SPEAKER_01]: We have five grandchildren.
[SPEAKER_01]: We...
[SPEAKER_01]: Sorry, four, four.
[SPEAKER_01]: Four grandchildren.
[SPEAKER_01]: Excuse me.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'll be tickled by that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Embarrassed by that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Joel, our oldest, is class of 09 here at A&M.
[SPEAKER_01]: Then we have Kelly, who's in high school here, and two little boys down in spring.
[SPEAKER_01]: But family has been always very special, and I've been blessed by a wonderful family.
[SPEAKER_01]: As we said, you taught at Blinn, a lot of students that learned communication and journalism.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I've got to know you personally a lot through that.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you were a football official for 22 years.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's another passion that you still have a passion for the game.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I love football.
[SPEAKER_01]: I love it being in the service.
[SPEAKER_01]: You love young people because that's who fights our wars, young people.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And a few old ones to lead them.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I love the sports arena.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I enjoyed high school football very much.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's very exciting.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's like a flight in aviation.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's not a flight that's the same.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's no two plays the same.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you're always wondering what's going to happen next.
[SPEAKER_01]: And some of the most unusual things do happen on the football field.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: In high school football, you've got to love it because you've been on the fields that are made of grass and the ones that are made of dirt, right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: I've been on the cow field where the ball rolls off.
[SPEAKER_01]: No astral turf, but I've been on
[SPEAKER_01]: Some fields where I think a pasture patio or two were there right before the game.
[SPEAKER_01]: And, of course, our share of fire ants.
[SPEAKER_01]: But a lot of wonderful kids and coaches play high school football in the state of Texas.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was a blessing being part of that.
[SPEAKER_01]: I know that from your journalism experience, you're a writer.
[SPEAKER_01]: You write articles for magazines.
[SPEAKER_01]: You're also a poet.
[SPEAKER_01]: You're very involved with your church and with Special Olympics.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you stay busy, don't you?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I've backed off a little bit because my doctor told me to, but I think a man's healthier if he stays busy.
[SPEAKER_01]: In fact, my doctor said, just don't sit.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Just don't sit.
[SPEAKER_00]: Just don't sit.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I'm not sitting.
[SPEAKER_01]: No, you're not.
[SPEAKER_01]: Came by your house yesterday and you were lifting weights, so I know that you're not sitting.
[SPEAKER_01]: We've just got about a minute.
[SPEAKER_01]: In about 20 seconds, talk to the veterans, your fellow veterans.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: I know you want to say something to them.
[SPEAKER_01]: First time, I want to thank you, your staff, the young people here today.
[SPEAKER_01]: I want to thank the sponsors and KMU for having us veterans.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I'd really like to speak to veterans who
[SPEAKER_01]: Hopefully we'll be watching that.
[SPEAKER_01]: We thank you.
[SPEAKER_01]: We thank you for your honorable service to our country, and we just pray for your safety.
[SPEAKER_01]: So thank you for your service.
[SPEAKER_01]: All right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Terry Roster, thank you very much for your service, and thank you for being here.
[SPEAKER_01]: Pleasure, Tom.
[SPEAKER_01]: Whether it was a teacher of soldiers or later a teacher of blend students, Terry Rosser is rightly proud of his service.
[SPEAKER_01]: He and Myrna deserve the joy of their retirement, and we salute him for giving some of his most vital years to serve his country.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we salute all veterans.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm Tom Turbyville.
[SPEAKER_01]: Be sure and join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.
Amen.
[SPEAKER_00]: In honor of the veterans who have served our country, both past and present, First National Bank proudly sponsors Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_00]: Since 1862, First National has provided local decision-making and accessibility, as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
[SPEAKER_00]: First National Bank.
[SPEAKER_00]: First, always.
Thank you.
[SPEAKER_01]: There is a moment when you know you'll never be the same.
[SPEAKER_01]: A moment when their genius sparks a new way to see, to think, to be more.
[SPEAKER_01]: Big idea!
[SPEAKER_01]: Defining moments.
[SPEAKER_01]: Definitive portraits of the icons of our time.
[SPEAKER_01]: American Masters.
[SPEAKER_01]: Only on PBS.
[SPEAKER_00]: KAMUDT College Station.